README.md, before:

# Automatic Double Tracking

Automatic double tracking (not only) for vocals


## Formats

This plugin is available in the following plug-in formats by default:

* [CLAP] (`chrisarndt.de.adt`)
* [LV2] (`https://chrisarndt.de/plugins/adt`)
* [VST3][vst] (`adt.vst3`)

The following formats are not built by default, but can be enabled when
compiling (see ["Compiling"](#compiling)):

* [LADSPA] (`adt-ladspa.so`)
* [VST2][vst] (`adt-vst.so`)

The plugin depends on the host to provide a generic UI to control parameters.


## Compiling

Make sure you have installed the required build tools and libraries (see
section "Prerequisites" below) and then clone this repository (including
sub-modules) and simply run `make` in the project's root directory:

    $ git clone --recursive https://github.com/SpotlightKid/adt.git
    $ cd adt
    $ make

To enable building additional plugin formats, which are not enabled by default
(LADSPA, VST2), pass `BUILD_LADSPA=true` resp. `BUILD_VST2=true` to make. For
example:

    make BUILD_VST2=true

The same settings must be passed to `make install` to also install optional
plugin formats.


## Installation

To install all plugin formats to their appropriate system-wide location, run
the following command (root priviledges may be required):

    make install

The makefiles support the usual `PREFIX` and `DESTDIR` variables to change the
installation prefix and set an installation root directory (defaulty: empty).
`PREFIX` defaults to `/usr/local`, but on macOS and Windows it is not used,
since the system-wide installation directories for plugins are fixed.

Use make's `-n` option to see where the plugins would be installed without
actually installing them.

You can also set the installation directory for each plugin format with a
dedicated makefile variable.

* CLAP: `CLAP_DIR` (`<prefix>/lib/clap`)
* LADSPA: `LADSPA_DIR` (`<prefix>/lib/ladspa`)
* LV2: `LV2_DIR` (`<prefix>/lib/lv2`)
* VST2: `VST2_DIR` (`<prefix>/lib/vst`)
* VST3: `VST3_DIR` (`<prefix>/lib/vst3`)

Example: `make DESTDIR=/tmp/build-root VST2_DIR=/usr/lib/lxvst install`

To install the plugins only for your current user account, run
`make install-user`.

Again, you can also set the installation directory for each plugin format with
a dedicated makefile variable.

* CLAP: `USER_CLAP_DIR` (`$HOME/.clap`)
* LADSPA: `USER_LADSPA_DIR` (`$HOME/.ladspa`)
* LV2: `USER_LV2_DIR` (`$HOME/.lv2`)
* VST2: `USER_VST2_DIR` (`$HOME/.vst`)
* VST3: `USER_VST3_DIR` (`$HOME/.vst3`)

*Note: The given default values for all of the above listed makefile
variables differ depending on the target OS.*


## Prerequisites

* The GCC C++ compiler, library and the usual associated software build tools
  (`make`, etc.).

  Debian / Ubuntu users should install the `build-essential` package
  to get these, Arch users the `base-devel` meta package.

* `patch`

* [pkgconf]

* The [faustpp] pre-processor and [FAUST] (optional)

The [CLAP], [LV2], [LADSPA], [VST2][vst] (Xaymar VST2SDK) and [VST3][vst]
headers are included in the [DPF] framework, which is integrated as a Git
sub-module. These need not be installed separately to build the software in
the respective plug-in formats.

`faustpp` and FAUST are only needed to re-generate C++ source and header files
if the FAUST DSP source files in the `faust` directory are changed.


## Author

This software was created by *Christopher Arndt*.


## License

This plugin is released under the *MIT*. Please see the
[LICENSE.md](./LICENSE.md) file for details.


## Acknowledgements

The DSP code is generated from the FAUST sources via the [faustpp]
pre-processor.

The project is built using the DISTRHO Plugin Framework ([DPF]) and was created
from the [dpf-faust-project-template] using [copier].


[clap]: https://cleveraudio.org/
[dpf-faust-project-template]: https://github.com/SpotlightKid/dpf-faust-project-template
[copier]: https://copier.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
[dpf]: https://github.com/DISTRHO/DPF
[faust]: https://faust.grame.fr/
[faustpp]: https://github.com/jpcima/faustpp.git
[ladspa]: https://www.ladspa.org/
[lv2]: https://lv2plug.in/
[pkgconf]: https://github.com/pkgconf/pkgconf
[vst]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_Studio_Technology

Commit message:

docs: update plugin description in readme and add screenshot
Signed-off-by: Christopher Arndt <chris@chrisarndt.de>

README.md, after:

# Automatic Double Tracking

[Automatic double tracking] (not only) for vocals.

This plugin copies the input four times and pans the copies alternatively
left and right by a set amount, delays each by up to 100 ms and also
pitch-shifts each copy by up to 150 cents. The maximum pan, delay and
pitch-shift spread can be independently controlled by parameters as well
as the cutoff frequencies of a low- and high-pass filter applied to the
stereo ouput.

This effect can be used to thicken up lead or background vocals or other
signals that need more presence in the mix.

It can be used as either and insert effect or as a send efefct in an
auxilliary bus by providing separate dry and wet signal gain parameters.

<p align="center"><img title="Generic LV2 UI in Ardour 8" src="screenshot-ardour8.png" width="373"></center>


## Formats

This plugin is available in the following plug-in formats by default:

* [CLAP] (`chrisarndt.de.adt`)
* [LV2] (`https://chrisarndt.de/plugins/adt`)
* [VST3][vst] (`adt.vst3`)

The following formats are not built by default, but can be enabled when
compiling (see ["Compiling"](#compiling)):

* [LADSPA] (`adt-ladspa.so`)
* [VST2][vst] (`adt-vst.so`)

The plugin depends on the host to provide a generic UI to control parameters.


## Compiling

Make sure you have installed the required build tools and libraries (see
section "Prerequisites" below) and then clone this repository (including
sub-modules) and simply run `make` in the project's root directory:

    $ git clone --recursive https://github.com/SpotlightKid/adt.git
    $ cd adt
    $ make

To enable building additional plugin formats, which are not enabled by default
(LADSPA, VST2), pass `BUILD_LADSPA=true` resp. `BUILD_VST2=true` to make. For
example:

    make BUILD_VST2=true

The same settings must be passed to `make install` to also install optional
plugin formats.


## Installation

To install all plugin formats to their appropriate system-wide location, run
the following command (root priviledges may be required):

    make install

The makefiles support the usual `PREFIX` and `DESTDIR` variables to change the
installation prefix and set an installation root directory (defaulty: empty).
`PREFIX` defaults to `/usr/local`, but on macOS and Windows it is not used,
since the system-wide installation directories for plugins are fixed.

Use make's `-n` option to see where the plugins would be installed without
actually installing them.

You can also set the installation directory for each plugin format with a
dedicated makefile variable.

* CLAP: `CLAP_DIR` (`<prefix>/lib/clap`)
* LADSPA: `LADSPA_DIR` (`<prefix>/lib/ladspa`)
* LV2: `LV2_DIR` (`<prefix>/lib/lv2`)
* VST2: `VST2_DIR` (`<prefix>/lib/vst`)
* VST3: `VST3_DIR` (`<prefix>/lib/vst3`)

Example: `make DESTDIR=/tmp/build-root VST2_DIR=/usr/lib/lxvst install`

To install the plugins only for your current user account, run
`make install-user`.

Again, you can also set the installation directory for each plugin format with
a dedicated makefile variable.

* CLAP: `USER_CLAP_DIR` (`$HOME/.clap`)
* LADSPA: `USER_LADSPA_DIR` (`$HOME/.ladspa`)
* LV2: `USER_LV2_DIR` (`$HOME/.lv2`)
* VST2: `USER_VST2_DIR` (`$HOME/.vst`)
* VST3: `USER_VST3_DIR` (`$HOME/.vst3`)

*Note: The given default values for all of the above listed makefile
variables differ depending on the target OS.*


## Prerequisites

* The GCC C++ compiler, library and the usual associated software build tools
  (`make`, etc.).

  Debian / Ubuntu users should install the `build-essential` package
  to get these, Arch users the `base-devel` meta package.

* `patch`

* [pkgconf]

* The [faustpp] pre-processor and [FAUST] (optional)

The [CLAP], [LV2], [LADSPA], [VST2][vst] (Xaymar VST2SDK) and [VST3][vst]
headers are included in the [DPF] framework, which is integrated as a Git
sub-module. These need not be installed separately to build the software in
the respective plug-in formats.

`faustpp` and FAUST are only needed to re-generate C++ source and header files
if the FAUST DSP source files in the `faust` directory are changed.


## Author

This software was created by *Christopher Arndt*.


## License

This plugin is released under the *MIT*. Please see the
[LICENSE.md](./LICENSE.md) file for details.


## Acknowledgements

The DSP code is generated from the FAUST sources via the [faustpp]
pre-processor.

The project is built using the DISTRHO Plugin Framework ([DPF]) and was created
from the [dpf-faust-project-template] using [copier].


[automatic double tracking]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automatic_double_tracking
[clap]: https://cleveraudio.org/
[dpf-faust-project-template]: https://github.com/SpotlightKid/dpf-faust-project-template
[copier]: https://copier.readthedocs.io/en/stable/
[dpf]: https://github.com/DISTRHO/DPF
[faust]: https://faust.grame.fr/
[faustpp]: https://github.com/jpcima/faustpp.git
[ladspa]: https://www.ladspa.org/
[lv2]: https://lv2plug.in/
[pkgconf]: https://github.com/pkgconf/pkgconf
[vst]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_Studio_Technology
